How does cipher block chaining work?

Cipher block chaining is a process used to encrypt and decrypt large plaintext inputs by creating a cryptographic 
chain wherein each ciphertext block is dependent on the last.

The first step to initiating a cipher block chain is to XOR the first of many plaintext blocks with an IV -- a 
unique, fixed-length conversion function -- to create a random, or pseudorandom, output. This XOR output is then 
encrypted using a cipher key to produce a ciphertext block, an encrypted text format that can be decrypted with the 
correct key.

For example, after the first plaintext block has been transformed into a ciphertext block, the subsequent plaintext 
block must be encrypted using a similar process. The only difference, however, is that the ciphertext block replaces 
the IV as one of the XOR inputs. This means that the encryption of the plaintext block after the first one is 
dependent on the encryption of the first plaintext block. With each plaintext block encryption, the adjacent 
ciphertext block must be used -- like a chain. Therefore, the second ciphertext block is produced by XORing the 
first ciphertext block with the second plaintext block and using the same encryption key. This process would repeat 
itself until there is no more plaintext left to encrypt.

The CBC decryption process works in a similar but distinct way. Contrary to similar decryption methods, the process 
does not start with the final ciphertext block. In fact, it can all happen simultaneously because all inputs are 
present.

To invert the cipher block chaining procedure, one must essentially reverse the encryption process. To do that, 
one must first feed the first ciphertext block through the decryption process. This involves using the same 
encryption key as before but on the ciphertext block. The product of this interaction is then XORed with the original
 IV to extract the original plaintext block. While similar, decrypting the second ciphertext block is different 
 from decrypting the first one because an IV cannot be used.

After combining the second ciphertext block with the cipher key, the output is XORed with the first ciphertext 
block to produce the second plaintext block. In this case, the previous ciphertext block replaces the IV during 
the decryption process. Remember, this is how the second ciphertext block was originally created; the second 
plaintext block and the first ciphertext block were XORed together. The process is complete once all ciphertexts 
have been successfully decrypted into plaintext.

