cpsa4init
create *.scm file
run make


First level of flowchart tends to not have error
    Cannot prove identity -- not unique

Multiple clients if no assumption of unique origination


;;uniq-orig need to be defined in vars as well and defined in bottom
;;cat seems to concatinate all elements into one
;;nonces are of type text and uniq-orig -- must be in parameters in role that originates it

;;(enc STUFF ENCRYPT_KEY)

;;recive tickets as parameters under mesg
;;send tickets as the whole thing

;;non-orig usually symmetric or private keys never sent in a message but known to one or more parties


Assignment Content

    You are to model Protocol 1 from "Using Encryption for Authentication in Large Networks of 
    Computers" using CPSA and verify whether or not the security properties of the protocol are 
    satisfied. You will turn in your CPSA specification along with a paper identifying the skeletons
    you used to analyze the protocol, the shapes resulting from your analysis and your interpretation 
    of what the shapes mean in terms of validating the security properties (if the shapes validate a 
    security property, state your reasoning why and if the shapes indicate that a security property 
    fails to hold, describe how an attack could be mounted based on your shape. You should answer the 
    following questions in your analysis to help you understand how to model the protocol:


        What are the security goals of the protocol?



        How many roles exist in the protocol?

            3:
                client
                server
                authentication server


        How many messages are there?

            5 Messages


        What variables will you need?

            identity client
            identity server
            identity authenication server

            secret key between client and authenication server
            secret key between server and authenication server
            session key created by authenication server

            nonce created by client
            nonce created by server


        What functions will you need?

            enc -- encrypting data to be sent over network
            hash -- modifying nonces to verify safe communication between server and client
            cat -- makes everything into a list 

        What are the assumptions being made?

            Safe Environment in which to compute, such as is provided by a personal computer or 
            would be by a secure shared operating system.

            Network can support bandwidth of the exchange.

            Client and Server exist in the same purview of Authentication Server.

            Server is non-malicous and would not try and impersonate client.

    (Points will be assigned for answers to the above questions, so make sure the answers to those 
    questions are in your write-up.)


    In addition, create a model in which you can demonstrate the attack from "Timestamps in Key 
    Distribution Protocols" against Needham-Schroeder Protocol 1.


    For an example of how to write up results, you may consult "Formal Methods Analysis of the 
    Secure Remote Password Protocol". You need not write a publishable paper, but take note of how 
    the properties are described and modeled and the results are written up.

